DMT Phase 2 Doc Updates (#936)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/migrate/pages/data-migration-tool.adoc

= Data Migration Tool
:description: You can use the Data Migration Tool (DMT) to migrate your data from version 4.x or 5.x Open Source and Enterprise Edition Hazelcast clusters when upgrading to Enterprise edition version 5.3.x or later, or moving to the latest {hazelcast-cloud} release. The DMT can also be used for infrastructure consolidation or separation with selective migration of application data between clusters.

{description} 

TIP: If you want to avoid downtime, use an in-place rolling upgrade instead of the DMT tool. For further information on upgrading without interrupting the operation of the cluster, see the xref:maintain-cluster:rolling-upgrades.adoc[Rolling Upgrades] topic.

When using the DMT, bear the following in mind:

* *General:*

** You can run only one migration at a time
** Any empty data structures are not migrated
** Indicative timings from our testing:
+
[NOTE]
====

> These timings will be affected by entry and data structure counts as follows:

Reviewer: Maybe an additional disclaimer around this part that mentions that these timings are just examples, and that individual migration times will depend on various factors including environmental constraints (i.e. network, hardware resources, etc.). Otherwise LGTM.

** The source cluster must be running and populated with required data
** The application must be using the source cluster successfully before migration
** Before starting the migration, remember to shutdown any applications that are using the source cluster
** For certain versions, you must add the provided extension JAR to your class path and restart the cluster if you want to migrate Replicated map metadata and/or CP data structures. 
+
For further information on the affected versions and use of the extension JAR, see the xref:migrate:dmt-source-cluster-extension.adoc[] topic. For further information on adding the extension JAR to your classpath, refer to the https://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/tools/windows/classpath.html[Oracle documentation,window=_blank].
+
If needed, but not done, the following occurs:

*** The migration cluster attempts to migrate Replicated map metadata unless you have disabled the migration of Replicated map metadata in your configuration, as described in xref:migrate:dmt-connection-config.adoc#replicatedmap-metadata-migration[ReplicatedMap Metadata Migration]. 
+

> If you have not added the extension JAR or disabled the migration of Replicated map metadata, the migration fails with an error about the missing API contained in the extension JAR.

Reviewer 2: If you have not added the extension JAR or disabled the migration of Replicated map metadata, the migration fails with an error about the missing API contained in the extension JAR.

--> 

If you have not added the extension JAR and have not disabled the migration of Replicated map metadata, the migration fails with an error about the missing API contained in the extension JAR.

> *** CP data structure are not migrated. 

Reviewer 2: since we say if needed, lets change here as well. an extension jar is needed if they want to migrate cp structures. 

So, "if needed" means they selected cp structures to migrate.

if they selected cp structures to migrate, but haven't added the extension jar to the classpath the behaviour is not "CP data structure are not migrated."

it's failing the migration with an error about the missing CP APIs that are in the extension jar or 5.3.7+ cluster version.

** The source cluster must be running and populated with required data
** The application must be using the source cluster successfully before migration
** Before starting the migration, remember to shutdown any applications that are using the source cluster
** For certain versions, you must add the provided extension JAR to your class path and restart the cluster if you want to migrate Replicated map metadata and/or CP data structures. For further information on the affected versions and use of the extension JAR, see the xref:migrate:dmt-source-cluster-extension.adoc[] topic
+

> If needed, but not done, Replicated map metadata and/or CP data structure are not migrated. For further information on adding the extension JAR to your classpath, refer to the https://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/tools/windows/classpath.html[Oracle documentation,window=_blank].

Reviewer 2: almost true. 

If the user does not set the "migrateReplicatedMapMetadata" option to false explicitly, the migration cluster will try to migrate replicated map metadata by default and there will be an error & migration fail about the missing API.

The CP migration is explicit by the user, we only migrate CP migrations if there are entries in the CP files in  migration_config/data folder, used to select which CP structures to migrate. If they select CP data structures but the API is absent on the source side, we'll again fail the migration.

Author: I have amended and expanded this description in the latest update.

* *Target Cluster:*

** The target cluster must be set up
+
Any populated data structures that already exist on the target cluster are not migrated; however, if the existing data structure is empty, it is migrated.

> ** The target cluster must be running on oneof the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** The target cluster must be running on one of the following:
```

Author: Great spot, thank you!
Amended in [https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/936/commits/58c391dd98438c1981eac72bf13fe637ebb02c3d](url)

> *** If you don't want to migrate ReplicatedMap metadata, Enterprise Edition version 5.3.2 or later. You can disable migration of Replicated map metadata as described in xref:migrate:dmt-connection-config.adoc#replicatedmap-metadata-migration[ReplicatedMap Metadata Migration]

Reviewer 2: 5.3.2 is for the IMap metadata migration, (which can't be disabled by an option), not for ReplicatedMap

** The source cluster must be running and populated with required data
** The application must be using the source cluster successfully before migration
** Before starting the migration, remember to shutdown any applications that are using the source cluster

> ** If migrating Replicated map metadata, you must add the custom JAR to your class path and restart the cluster. If this is not done, the Replicated map metadata is not migrated. For further information on adding the custom JAR to your classpath, refer to the https://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/tools/windows/classpath.html[Oracle documentation,window=_blank].

Reviewer 2: We'll add an option to enable/disable replicated map metadata migration via a flag, will let you know when that happens
